---
title: A minimal Webpack setup for React with Typescript, Prettier and ESLint
date: 2020-02-29
excerpt: In order to
order: 1
---

**Lead**

Create-react-app, Next and Gatsby are great baselines for production react apps, but they are not ideal for some of the posts I have planned for the Blog. Their intricate and large (and thus quite opaque) are not well suited for the kind of explorations we endeavour here. To immediately see which part is responsible for what in a stack or build process, we need a react setup that is more simple, more transparent and uses more defaults.

Putting together a basic setup for future posts, it occured to me that that would be a good opportunity to explain some basic concepts about Webpack. Some short info on Webpack:

Paragraph about Webpack

For the tutorials, we will use TypeScript, so we'll make sure that we can write our app in `.tsx` files and then convert it to `.js`. Other than that, we will just use a standard HTML-file and link it to a CSS file containing our stylesheet. Using all Webpack defaults, here's what the compiled app will look like:

```
dist/
  index.html
  main.js
  main.css
```

These files will be bundled for us from our source files by Webpack.

```
src/
  App.tsx
  index.html
  index.tsx
  styles.css
```

## Adding our app files

Create a node app and add react

Let's start by put a little component for our react app in our source folder. We're just gonna call it `App`. This can look any way you want, but we're just going to add a boring old paragraph saying "Hello World".

```jsx
// src/App.tsx
import React from 'react'

export const App = () => {
  return (
    <div>
      <p>Hello World</p>
    </div>
  )
}
```

Next, we're gonna add the main/starting Javascript file for our app (the "entry file" in Webpacks diction) and import our `App` component there. By convention, we're gonna name it `index.tsx`, that's also the default for entry files, so we don't have to add any config in order for Webpack to discover it.

```jsx
// src/index.tsx
import React from 'react'
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom'

import { App } from './App'

ReactDOM.render(<App />, document.getElementById('container'))
```

Basically, we are telling react to bolt our app to an DOM element with the id "container" here, so we have to make sure that exists. This leads us neatly to our next step, creating the basis for the HTML file that's going to end up being loaded in the browser. So we add an `index.html` to our

It is more practical that the contents of our `/dist` folder are completely generated by Webpack, so the entire folder can be deleted and regenerated as we are seeing fit, so we are going to use a Webpack plugin later on to use our source `index.html` as a template for the final distribution file. That means we don't have to manually add our JavaScript or CSS to the file and can just write the required tags _plus our container element_ in our `index.html`:

```html
<!-- src/index.html -->
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Minimal React Setup</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="container"></div>
  </body>
</html>
```

With that, we have everything in place for our "Hello World" app. We just have to glue things together with Webpack so that it produces a nice bundle for us.

## Use Babel and Webpack to compile

## 3. Add a type-checking command

## Add CSS

Hello

```javascript
/* eslint-disable @typescript-eslint/no-var-requires */
const HtmlWebpackPlugin = require('html-webpack-plugin')

module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.html$/,
        use: [
          {
            loader: 'html-loader',
          },
        ],
      },
      {
        test: /\.((j|t)sx?)\$/, // = (js|jsx|ts|tsx) yay programming!
        exclude: /node_modules/,
        use: {
          loader: 'babel-loader',
        },
      },
    ],
  },
  plugins: [
    new HtmlWebpackPlugin({
      template: './src/index.html',
      filename: './index.html',
    }),
  ],
  resolve: {
    extensions: ['.wasm', '.mjs', '.js', '.ts', '.tsx', '.json'],
  },
}
```
