



A website is not a poster or a book cover, so you can't design it like one. You do not know the dimensions in whcih the user will see the website, because there's too many devices and people can resize their browser windows as they like. In terms of design, this means giving up a measure of control.

Too many people still refuse to sufficiently acknowledge this fact.
As an aside: You can make certain estimates as to which screens you will see (iPads e.g. report as 756px wide. 
- Different rendering
- Future devices
Accounting for all these issues is way more complex and time-consuming then just to accept that you can't know.

Note that this also means that the measures you can take  you are a
Second, you are basically bound to the possibilities of CSS and HTML.
JS is a programming language like any other, but it can't

Third, a website is something people *use*, not look at. That

You're bound by performance

You're bound by how much work the programmer has to do.
The programmer's work might be more expensive than yours.





### Browser Rendering
Basically, every browser is built to render the page with the same width as the window (called *the viewport*), i.e. to prevent scrolling to the left and right. In order to achieve that, the *height* of the website is built to be completely flexible – it absorbs the excess that is caused. Line-breaks in text are thus added automatically. 

Most websites can only be designed at the level of templates - every article in an online magazine is generated by pretty much the same code - and thus runs with more or less the same design. You cannot design for the length of the headline, the number of paragraphs, the aspect ration of the images that accompany it... The same is true when you design a header or a bar with tags in it: There's no guarantee that the text contained in it will stay on one line – and remember, it has to do so on every possible, even future screen size. 


For a very long time, web design agencies have advertised with the phrase "pixel-perfect". When designers paint a website in Photoshop, that too, is pixel-perfect. But in the sense that every pixel is accounted for by design, that goal is all but impossible to obtain for a working website - and that is a good thing: Being pixel-perfect would mean much more engineering costs and ultimately likely restrict users in what they can do with their websites (choose their window size, zoom in and out), likey fail to account for future devices and likely disincentivise an internet that perople with disabilities can use. So, *no*, we should not want to be pixel-perfect. As it turns out, the

 is not an reasonably attainable goal.
Reasonably relinquishing control means 

###

MOBILE FIRST DESIGN (WORK WITH SMALL SIZES)
NO DEVICE-SNIFFING
NO SCROLLJACKING
THINK IN (R)EMS
A WEBSITE IS NOT A DESKTOP APP (No "X"s please)
